---
title: Do I lost interest in math or pure math?
date: 2020-02-26
math: true
diagram: true
markup: mmark
image:
  placement: 3
  caption:
---

I chose math as my major at university after high school in 2008 because I love math and understand high school math well so I want to know and learn more about math. During 4 years  in university, I studied many pure math such as real and complex analysis, topology, linear and abstract algebra, measure theory, group theory, differential on Banach spaces and so on. The courses range from difficult to very difficult and I didn't understand math clearly and just tried hard to obtained bachelor degree. However, this doesn't stop me from loving mathematics because difficulty is one of beauty of math and  I loved its confusion, abstraction and wanted to learn math more.

So, graduated from university doesn't satisfy me. I still don't know about math, about pure math. Why I learn abstract algebra, topology or others abstract pure math courses? To find the answer, I decided to pursue master degree in mathematics in my university. During two years of master degree, I attended 22 courses and did one thesis in number theory. Each course is mostly taught from foreign professor for 45 hours (3 weeks, 5 days per weeks and 3 hours per day). Start from one professor for 3 weeks to another professor for 3 weeks and so on. What do I got after that 2 years? Nothing left and even not obtained a master degree. Luckily, this 2 years master learned me a chance to pursue again master degree in Mexico.

I start my second master degree in 2015 in Mexico specialized in pure math. There are 4 different areas in this institute (pure/basic math, applied math, computational math and probability and statistic) and I chose pure math because it is want I want to know. The first semester of my master degree in Mexico is the tough one. I learned only 2 courses (real analysis and linear algebra) compared to master in my university (maybe 5 courses per semester), it was little. However, I had to do homework every week and they are difficult and I had to obtain 8 out of 10 after semester or I would lose a very good scholarship. Thus, I must tried hard and in return, I understand more about pure math. I know more about real/complex analysis, abstract algebra and topology that I didn't understand clearly during my undergraduate and even had a chance to study courses I haven't studied before; namely, algebraic topology, Riemaniann geometry and representation theory of associative algebra. With all my hard work, I obtained my master degree with a thesis related on Lie group and Lie algebra.

With this understanding, I had confident to pursue phd degree with the same adviser in the same institute in 2017. I started to understand more, to learn more, to read more in order to solve my phd problem. I started read various articles, books. I started from didn't know where to start with my problem to understand my problem, to know where to go. Thank to my adviser for all of these and everything is going fine and I almost solved my problem and think of continuing to become a mathematician. But is it always happy like that?

Until now, I think I lost interest in math or pure math. I don't know. I phd problem is in progress and everything is fine but I just try hard to solve my problem in order to finish my phd. I don't care about other subjects, I don't want to know more, I don't want to know detail but result for solving my problem. I don't interest in the problem as before. I don't care much if it is not related to my problem. I don't bother if I can solve the problem or not. I just want a result, I just want to solve my phd problem as soon as possible. The problem, the technique of solving the problem, the detail, all of these just nothing for me. I can't see their beauties anymore. When I see some math problem on Facebook, I just scroll down. I don't want to know more than what I do now. I get bored of math problem. On my free time, I just play, sleep and eat. I don't work much on math and when I work, I can't stay focus on it. I get bored of it easily. Sometimes, I just want to go back to my home country, work as lecturer at my university, live a simple life as most of my other friends do. But! this will satisfy me and this all what I want?